# AudiMeta

A fast and flexible Audible metadata provider with extensive querying options and bulk search capabilities.

## Instance

The public instance of AudiMeta is available at [audimeta.de](https://audimeta.de).  
An uptime status page is available at [status.audimeta.de](https://status.audimeta.de).

Rate limits are in place to ensure fair usage of the service. The RPM (Requests per Minute) limit is 150.

## Overview

AudiMeta was created to serve as a comprehensive metadata provider for Audible content, offering rich querying options and advanced search functionality.

AudiMeta provides enhanced search capabilities, including bulk operations.

> [!NOTE]
> ~~In the future, AudiMeta may extend support to other audiobook vendors beyond Audible and the creation of books.~~  
> AudiMeta's codebase and database layout are designed with Audible in mind. For the sake of supportability and to streamline the process, AudiMeta will be an Audible provider only.  
> In the future, AudiMeta may be rewritten with a better codebase, as the current design works but is not optimal.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Even though AudiMeta will not support other providers, there is currently another project in the works that will be a user-contributed database and is not a solo project.  
> AudiMeta is an upstream provider and therefore will be continuously updated.
> Users will be able to request books from different providers. There will be a proper FTS (Full Text Search) and a better codebase, as well as proper linking between books/editions and identifications (ISBN, ASIN, etc.).  
> It is written using a proper framework and will support multiple providers.  
> Current working providers include Audible and those uploading `metadata.json` generated by Audiobookshelf.  
> *There is currently no public instance or beta. If you are interested in testing or contributing data to it, you can reach out via fito0912@duck.com once a beta is ready.*

This was inspired by [Audnexus](https://github.com/audnexus/audnexus). It shares some of the same Audible APIs, so the data should be the same with a bit more.

## Documentation

View the complete API documentation via the OpenAPI specification:

- [OpenAPI Documentation](https://audimeta.de)

## Features

### Highlights

- Bulk search for ASINs (up to 50)
- Search across regions for cached books
- Find all books of an author or series

### Search Capabilities

- Search books by title
- Retrieve books by author
- Look up books by ASIN (single or bulk)
- Find books by series ASIN (all)
- Find books by author (supports fetching the first 50 books of an author and shows all cached books if searched or cached previously)
- Search by author name
- Search by narrator name
- Look up books by ISBN (Audible ISBN might not be the same as the audiobook ISBN of the book)

### Book Details

- Get detailed book information by ASIN, a list of ASINs, or ISBN

### Series Information

- Retrieve series information by name
- Retrieve series information by ASIN

### Author Information

- Get author details by name
- Get author details by ASIN

## Supported Regions

AudiMeta supports the following Audible regions:

| Region Code | Region Name    |
| ----------- | -------------- |
| `de`        | Germany        |
| `us`        | United States  |
| `uk`        | United Kingdom |
| `fr`        | France         |
| `it`        | Italy          |
| `es`        | Spain          |
| `jp`        | Japan          |
| `ca`        | Canada         |
| `au`        | Australia      |
| `in`        | India          |
| `br`        | Brazil         |

### Region Behavior

When searching for books, results will be returned regardless of regional availability by default if the books ASIN is cached.

### Parameters

Please check the [OpenAPI Documentation](https://audimeta.de) for detailed information on the available query parameters. Some endpoints only return cached data and do not query Audible again unless explicitly requested.